good
evening good
evening if I were smart I'd go home now
Mr
Speaker Madame vice president members of
Congress my fellow
Americans in
January
1941 Franklin Roosevelt came to this
chamber to speak to the nation and he
said I address you at a moment
unprecedented in the history of the
Union
Hitler was on the March war was raging
in Europe President Roosevelt's purpose
was to wake up Congress and alert the
American people that this was no
ordinary time freedom and democracy were
under assault in the world tonight I
come to this same chamber to address the
nation now it's we who face unprecedent
moment in the history of the union and
yes my purpose tonight is to wake up the
Congress and alert the American people
that this is no ordinary moment
either not since President Lincoln and
the Civil War have freedom and democracy
been underall at home as they are today
what makes our moment rare is that
freedom of democracy are under attack at
both at home and
overseas at the very same time overseas
Putin of Russia is on the March invading
Ukraine and sowing chaos throughout
Europe and Beyond
if anybody in this room thinks Putin
will stop at Ukraine I assure you he
will
not but you
train Ukraine can stop
Putin Ukraine can stop Putin if we stand
with Ukraine and provide the
weapons that needs to defend
itself that is
all that is all Ukraine is asking
they're not asking for American soldiers
in fact there are no American soldiers
war in Ukraine and I'm determined to
keep it that
way but
now assistance Ukraine is being blocked
by those who want to walk away from our
world
leadership wasn't long ago when a
Republican president named Ronald Reagan
thundered Mr gorbachov tear down this
wall
now now my
predecessor a former Republican
president tells Putin quote do whatever
the hell you
want that's a
quote a former president actually said
that bowing down to a Russian leader I
think it's outrageous it's dangerous and
it's
unacceptable
America is a founding member of
NATO the military Alliance of democratic
nations created after World War II
prevent to prevent war and keep the
peace and today we've made NATO stronger
than ever welcome Finland to the
alliance last
year and just this
morning Sweden officially joined and
their minister is here
tonight stand
up
welcome welcome welcome
welcome
and they know how to
fight Mr Prime Minister welcome to Nato
the strongest military Alliance the
world has ever
seen I say this to Congress we have to
stand up to
Putin send me a bipartisan National
Security
Bill history is literally watching
history is watching if the United States
walks away it will put Ukraine at risk
risk Europe is at risk the Free World be
at risk and Bolding others to do what
they wish to do us
harm my message to President Putin who
I've known for a long time is simple we
will not walk
away we will not bow
down I I will not bow
down in a literal sense history is
watching history is
watching just like history watched three
years ago on January
6th when Insurrection storm this very
capital and plac the dager at the throat
of American
democracy many of you are here on that
darkest of days we all saw with our own
eyes the insurrectionists were not
Patriots
that come to stop the peaceful transfer
of power to over Stern the will of the
people January 6 lies about the 2020
election and the plots that steal the
election posed a great gravest threat to
US democracy since the Civil War but
they
failed America
stood America stood strong and democracy
prevailed we must be honest the threat
to democracy must be
defended my predecessor and some of you
here seek to bury the truth about
January 6th I will not do that this is
the moment to speak the truth and to
bury the lies here's the simple truth
you can't love your country only when
you
win
as I've done ever since being elected to
office I ask all of you without regard
to party to join together and defend
democracy remember your oath of Officer
defend against all threats foreign and
domestic respect
respect free and fair elections restore
trust in our institutions and make clear
political violence has absolutely no
place no place in America zero
place
again it's not it's not hyperbole to
suggest history is watching or watching
your children and grandchildren will
read about this day and what we do
history is watching another assault on
freedom joining us to the light is L
Toya Beasley a social worker from birham
Alabama 14 months ago 14 months ago she
and her husband welcomed a baby girl
thanks to the miracle of
IVF she scheduled treatments to have
that second child but the Alabama
Supreme Court shut down IVF treatments
across the state Unleashed by Supreme
Court decision overturning roie Wade she
was told her dream would have to wait
what her family had got through should
never have happened unless Congress acts
it could happen again so tonight let's
stand up for families like hers to my
friends across the aisle don't keep this
waiting any
longer guarantee the right to
avor guarantee a
[Applause]
nationwide